

# my-first-project
my-first-project

Ababalwe Mhambi 221507000

PROGRAMMING IN JAVA
Integrated development environments (IDE) are applications that makes easy  the development of other applications. There are three most basic parts of the 
Java ecosystem are the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), and the Java Development Kit (JDK), which are supply parts that are supplied
by Java implementations.  Designed to encompass all programming tasks in one application, one of the main benefits of an IDE is that they offer a central interface with
all the tools a developer needs, including:

>	Code editor : Designed for writing and correct the source code, these editors are important from text editors because work to also simplify  the process of
writing and  correct the code for developers.

>	Compiler: Compilers convert source code that is written by a human readable language in a form of computers that can execute.

>	Debugger: Debuggers are used during checking and can assist developers to debug their application programs.

>	Build automation tools: These can assist to automate developer tasks that are extra common to keep time.

Each Java program runs under the control of a JVM. Each time you run a Java program, the instance in JVM is created. It supply protection and isolation for the 
Java program that is running. It resist the running of the code from clashing with other programs within the system. It works like a non-strict sandbox, doing 
a safe to serve resources, even in uncertain environments such as the internet, but allowing interoperability with the computer on which it runs. In easy terms,
JVM acts as a computer inside a computer, which means specifically for running Java programs.

At the top layer of stock Java technologies is the JDK. The JDK carry all the programs that are required to develop Java programs, and it's most essential part is the 
Java Compiler (javac). The JDK also includes most auxiliary tools such as a Java disassembler (javap), a utility to create packages of Java applications (jar), system to 
bring about documentation from source code (javadoc), among most other utilities. The JDK is a superset of the JRE, meaning that if you had the JDK, then you also has the
JRE (and the JVM).
